SOURCE: Hardware_Manual_guide/node00F3.html
TITLE: Amiga® Hardware Reference Manual: E I/O Connectors And Interfaces

Amiga® Hardware Reference Manual: E I/O Connectors And Interfaces ]" border=0> This appendix consists of four distinct parts, related to the way in which the Amiga talks to the outside world. The first part specifies the pinouts of the externally accessible connectors and the power available at each connector. It does not, however, provide timing or loading information. The second part briefly describes the functions of those pins whose purpose may not be evident. The third part contains a list of the connections for certain internal connectors, notably the disk. The fourth part specifies how various signals relate to the available ports of the 8520. This information enables the programmer to relate the port addresses to the outside-world items (or internal control signals) that are to be affected. The third and fourth parts are primarily for the use of the systems programmer and should generally not be utilized by applications programmers. Systems software normally is configured to handle the setting of particular signals, no matter how the physical connections may change. In other words, if you have a version of the system software that matches the revision level of the machine (normally a true condition), when you ask that a particular bit be set, you don't care which port that bit is connected to. Thus, applications programmers should rely on system documentation rather than going directly to the ports. Warning: -------- In a multitasking operating system, many different tasks may be competing for the use of the system resources. Application programmers should follow the established rules for resource access in order to assure compatibility of their software with the system. Don't just hit the hardware registers directly, ask the system for exclusive control first. Part 1 - Amiga I/O Connector Pins Part 2 - Explanation of Amiga I/O Connectors Part 3 - Internal Connectors Part 4 - Port Signal Assignments for 8520 CIAS [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]
