12 Serial Device / Serial Device Commands and Functions ]" border=0> Device Command Operation -------------- --------- CMD_CLEAR Reset the serial port's read buffer pointers. CMD_FLUSH Purge all queued requests for the serial device (does not affect active requests). CMD_READ Read a stream of characters from the serial port buffer. The number of characters can be specified or a termination character(s) used. CMD_RESET Reset the serial port to its initialized state. All active and queued I/O requests will be aborted and the current buffer will be released. CMD_START Restart all paused I/O over the serial port. Also sends an "xON". CMD_STOP Pause all active I/O over the serial port. Also sends an "xOFF". CMD_WRITE Write out a stream of characters to the serial port. The number of characters can be specified or a NULL-terminated string can be sent. SDCMD_BREAK Send a break signal out the serial port. May be done immediately or queued. Duration of the break (in microseconds) can be set by the application. SDCMD_QUERY Return the status of the serial port lines and registers, and the number of bytes in the serial port's read buffer. SDCMD_SETPARAMS Set the parameters of the serial port. This ranges from baud rate to number of microseconds a break will last. Exec Functions as Used in This Chapter -------------------------------------- AbortIO() Abort a command to the serial device. If the command is in progress, it is stopped immediately. If it is queued, it is removed from the queue. BeginIO() Initiate a command and return immediately (asynchronous request). This is used to minimize the amount of system overhead. CheckIO() Determine the current state of an I/O request. CloseDevice() Relinquish use of the serial device. All requests must be complete. DoIO() Initiate a command and wait for completion (synchronous request). OpenDevice() Obtain use of the serial device. SendIO() Initiate a command and return immediately (asynchronous request). WaitIO() Wait for the completion of an asynchronous request. When the request is complete the message will be removed from your reply port. Exec Support Functions as Used in This Chapter ---------------------------------------------- CreateExtIO() Create an extended I/O request structure of type IOExtSer . This structure will be used to communicate commands to the serial device. CreatePort() Create a signal message port for reply messages from the serial device. Exec will signal a task when a message arrives at the port. DeleteExtIO() Delete an extended I/O request structure created by CreateExtIO() . DeletePort() Delete the message port created by CreatePort() . [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]