SOURCE: Devices_Manual_guide/node0054.html
TITLE: 10 Printer Device / Creating a Printer Driver

10 Printer Device / Creating a Printer Driver ]" border=0> Creating the printer-dependent modules for the printer device involves writing the data structures and code, compiling and assembling them, and linking to produce an Amiga binary object file. The modules a driver contains varies depending on whether the printer is non-graphics or graphics capable. All drivers contain these modules: macros.i - include file for init.asm,contains printer device macro definitions printertag.asm - printer specific capabilities such as density, character sets and color init.asm - opens the various libraries required by the printer driver. This will be the same for all printers data.c - contains printer device RAW commands and the extended character set supported by the printer dospecial.c - printer specific special processing required for printer device commands like aSLRM and aSFC Graphic printer drivers require these additional modules: render.c - printer specific processing to do graphics output and fill the output buffer transfer.c - printer specific processing called by render.c to output the buffer to the printer. Code it in assembly if speed is important density.c - printer specific processing to construct the proper print density commands The first piece of the printer driver is the PrinterSegment structure described in devices/ prtbase.h (this is pointed to by the BPTR returned by the LoadSeg() of the object file). The PrinterSegment contains the PrinterExtendedData (PED) structures (also described in devices/prtbase.h) at the beginning of the object. The PED structure contains data describing the capabilities of the printer, as well as pointers to code and other data. Here is the assembly code for a sample PrinterSegment, which would be linked to the beginning of the sequence of files as printertag.asm. printertag.asm The printer name should be the brand name of the printer that is available for use by programs wishing to be specific about the printer name in any diagnostic or instruction messages. The four functions at the top of the structure are used to initialize this printer-dependent code: (*(PED->ped_Init))(PD) ; This is called when the printer-dependent code is loaded and provides a pointer to the printer device for use by the printer-dependent code. It can also be used to open up any libraries or devices needed by the printer-dependent code. (*(PED->ped_Expunge))() ; This is called immediately before the printer-dependent code is unloaded, to allow it to close any resources obtained at initialization time. (*(PED->ped_Open))(ior) ; This is called in the process of an OpenDevice() call, after the Preferences are read and the correct primitive I/O device (parallel or serial) is opened. It must return zero if the open is successful, or non-zero to terminate the open and return an error to the user. (*(PED->ped_Close))(ior) ; This is called in the process of a CloseDevice() call to allow the printer-dependent code to close any resources obtained at open time. The pd_ variable provided as a parameter to the initialization call is a pointer to the PrinterData structure described in devices/prtbase.h. This is also the same as the io_Device entry in printer I/O requests. pd_SegmentData This points back to the PrinterSegment, which contains the PED. pd_PrintBuf This is available for use by the printer-dependent code - it is not otherwise used by the printer device. (*pd_PWrite)(data, length); This is the interface routine to the primitive I/O device. This routine uses two I/O requests to the primitive device, so writes are double-buffered. The data parameter points to the byte data to send, and the length is the number of bytes. (*pd_PBothReady)(); This waits for both primitive I/O requests to complete. This is useful if your code does not want to use double buffering. If you want to use the same data buffer for successive pd_PWrites, you must separate them with a call to this routine. pd_Preferences This is the copy of Preferences in use by the printer device, obtained when the printer was opened. The timeout field is the number of seconds that an I/O request from the printer device to the primitive I/O device (parallel or serial) will remain posted and unsatisfied before the timeout requester is presented to the user. The timeout value should be long enough to avoid the requester during normal printing. The PrintMode field is a flag which indicates whether text has been printed or not (1 means printed, 0 means not printed). This flag is used in drivers for page oriented printers to indicate that there is no alphanumeric data waiting for a formfeed. Writing Alphanumeric Printer Drivers Writing A Graphics Printer Driver Testing The Printer Driver [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]
