SOURCE: Devices_Manual_guide/node02C9.html
TITLE: 8SVX IFF 8-Bit Sampled Voice / Introduction

8SVX IFF 8-Bit Sampled Voice / Introduction ]" border=0> This is the IFF supplement for FORM "8SVX". An 8SVX is an IFF "data section" or " FORM " (which can be an IFF file or a part of one) containing a digitally sampled audio voice consisting of 8-bit samples. A voice can be a one-shot sound or - with repetition and pitch scaling - a musical instrument. " EA IFF 85 " is Electronic Arts' standard interchange file format. [See EA IFF 85 Standard for Interchange Format Files.] The 8SVX format is designed for playback hardware that uses 8-bit samples attenuated by a volume control for good overall signal-to-noise ratio. So a FORM 8SVX stores 8-bit samples and a volume level. A similar data format (or two) will be needed for higher resolution samples (typically 12 or 16 bits). Properly converting a high resolution sample down to 8 bits requires one pass over the data to find the minimum and maximum values and a second pass to scale each sample into the range -128 through 127. So it's reasonable to store higher resolution data in a different FORM type and convert between them. For instruments, FORM 8SVX can record a repeating waveform optionally preceded by a startup transient waveform. These two recorded signals can be pre-synthesized or sampled from an acoustic instrument. For many instruments, this representation is compact. FORM 8SVX is less practical for an instrument whose waveform changes from cycle to cycle like a plucked string, where a long sample is needed for accurate results. FORM 8SVX can store an "envelope" or "amplitude contour" to enrich musical notes. A future voice FORM could also store amplitude, frequency, and filter modulations. FORM 8SVX is geared for relatively simple musical voices, where one waveform per octave is sufficient, the waveforms for the different octaves follow a factor-of-two size rule, and one envelope is adequate for all octaves. You could store a more general voice as a LIST containing one or more FORM s 8SVX per octave. A future voice FORM could go beyond one "one-shot" waveform and one "repeat" waveform per octave. Section 2 defines the required property sound header " VHDR ", optional properties name " NAME ", copyright " (c) ", and author " AUTH ", the optional annotation data chunk " ANNO ", the required data chunk " BODY ", and optional envelope chunks " ATAK " and " RLSE ". These are the "standard" chunks. Specialized chunks for private or future needs can be added later, e.g., to hold a frequency contour or Fourier series coefficients. The 8SVX syntax is summarized in Appendix A as a regular expression and in Appendix B as an example box diagram. Appendix C explains the optional Fibonacci-delta compression algorithm. Reference [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]
