Data Sections / Designing New Data Sections ]" border=0> Supplemental documents will define additional object types. A supplement needs to specify the object's purpose, its FORM type ID, the IDs and formats of standard local chunk s, and rules for generating and interpreting the data. It's a good idea to supply typedefs and an example source program that accesses the new object. See " ILBM " IFF Interleaved Bitmap for such an example. Anyone can pick a new FORM type ID but should reserve it with Commodore Applications and Technical Support ( CAT ) at their earliest convenience. While decentralized format definitions and extensions are possible in IFF, our preference is to get design consensus by committee, implement a program to read and write it, perhaps tune the format before it becomes locked in stone, and then publish the format with example code. Some organization should remain in charge of answering questions and coordinating extensions to the format. If it becomes necessary to incompatibly revise the design of some data section, its FORM type ID will serve as a version number (Cf. Type IDs). E.g., a revised "VDEO" data section could be called "VDE1". But try to get by with compatible revisions within the existing FORM type. In a new FORM type, the rules for primitive data types and word-alignment (Cf. Primitive Data Types) may be overridden for the contents of its local chunk s - but not for the chunk structure itself - if your documentation spells out the deviations. If machine-specific type variants are needed, e.g., to store vast numbers of integers in reverse bit order, then outline the conversion algorithm and indicate the variant inside each file, perhaps via different FORM types. Needless to say, variations should be minimized. In designing a FORM type, encapsulate all the data that other programs will need to interpret your files. E.g., a raster graphics image should specify the image size even if your program always uses 320 x 200 pixels x 3 bitplanes. Receiving programs are then empowered to append or clip the image rectangle, to add or drop bitplanes, etc. This enables a lot more compatibility. Separate the central data (like musical notes) from more specialized information (like note beams) so simpler programs can extract the central parts during read-in. Leave room for expansion so other programs can squeeze in new kinds of information (like lyrics). And remember to keep the property chunk s manageably short - let's say LIST or FORM or CAT intact, e.g., to incorporate it into a composite FORM. So any kind of internal references within a FORM must be relative references. They could be relative to the start of the containing FORM, relative from the referencing chunk , or a sequence number into a collection. With composite FORM s, you leverage on existing programs that create and edit the components. If you write a program that creates composite objects, please provide a facility for users to import and export the nested FORMs. Finally, don't forget to specify all implied rules in detail. [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]