1 Introduction to Libraries / General Amiga Development Guidelines ]" border=0> In the earlier sections of this chapter, the basic environment of the Amiga operating system was discussed. This section presents specific guidelines that all Amiga programmers must follow. Some of these guidelines are for advanced programmers or apply only to code written in assembly language. * Check for memory loss . Arrange your Workbench screen so that you have a Shell available and can start your program without rearranging any windows. In the Shell window type Avail flush several times (the flush option requires the Release 2 version of the Avail command). Note the total amount of free memory. Run your program (do not rearrange any windows other than those created by the program) and then exit. At the Shell, type Avail flush several times again. Compare the total amount of free memory with the earlier figure. They should be the same. Any difference indicates that your application is not freeing some memory it used or is not closing a disk-loaded library, device or font it opened. Note that under Release 2, a small amount of memory loss is normal if your application is the first to use the audio or narrator device. * Use all of the program debugging and stress tools that are available when writing and testing your code. New debugging tools such as Enforcer, MungWall, and Scratch can help find uninitialized pointers, attempted use of freed memory and misuse of scratch registers or condition codes (even in programs that appear to work perfectly). * Always make sure you actually get any system resource that you ask for. This applies to memory, windows, screens, file handles, libraries, devices, ports, etc. Where an error value or return is possible, ensure that there is a reasonable failure path. Many poorly written programs will appear to be reliable, until some error condition (such as memory full or a disk problem) causes the program to continue with an invalid or null pointer, or branch to untested error handling code. * Always clean up after yourself. This applies for both normal program exit and program termination due to error conditions. Anything that was opened must be closed, anything allocated must be deallocated. It is generally correct to do closes and deallocations in reverse order of the opens and allocations. Be sure to check your development language manual and startup code; some items may be closed or deallocated automatically for you, especially in abort conditions. If you write in the C language, make sure your code handles Ctrl-C properly. * Remember that memory, peripheral configurations, and ROMs differ between models and between individual systems. Do not make assumptions about memory address ranges, storage device names, or the locations of system structures or code. Never call ROM routines directly. Beware of any example code you find that calls routines at addresses in the $F0 0000 - $FF FFFF range. These are ROM routines and they will move with every OS release. The only supported interface to system ROM code is through the library, device, and resource calls. * Never assume library bases or structures will exist at any particular memory location. The only absolute address in the system is $0000 0004, which contains a pointer to the Exec library base. Do not modify or depend on the format of private system structures. This includes the poking of copper lists, memory lists, and library bases. * Never assume that programs can access hardware resources directly. Most hardware is controlled by system software that will not respond well to interference from other programs. Shared hardware requires programs to use the proper sharing protocols. Use the defined interface; it is the best way to ensure that your software will continue to operate on future models of the Amiga. * Never access shared data structures directly without the proper mutual exclusion ( locking ). Remember that other tasks may be accessing the same structures. * The system does not monitor the size of a program's stack . (Your compiler may have an option to do this for you.) Take care that your program does not cause stack overflow and provide extra stack space for the possibility that some functions may use up additional stack space in future versions of the OS. * Never use a polling loop to test signal bits. If your program waits for external events like menu selection or keystrokes, do not bog down the multitasking system by busy-waiting in a loop. Instead, let your task go to sleep by Wait()ing on its signal bits. For example: signals = (ULONG)Wait( (1 UserPort->mp_SigBit) | (1 mp_SigBit) ); This turns the signal bit number for each port into a mask, then combines them as the argument for the Exec library Wait() function. When your task wakes up, handle all of the messages at each port where the mp_SigBit is set. There may be more than one message per port, or no messages at the port. Make sure that you ReplyMsg() to all messages that are not replies themselves. If you have no signal bits to Wait() on, use Delay() or WaitTOF() to provide a measured delay. * Tasks (and processes) execute in 680x0 user mode. Supervisor mode is reserved for interrupts, traps, and task dispatching. Take extreme care if your code executes in supervisor mode. Exceptions while in supervisor mode are deadly. * Most system functions require a particular execution environment. All DOS functions and any functions that might call DOS (such as the opening of a disk-resident library, font, or device) can only be executed from a process . A task is not sufficient. Most other ROM kernel functions may be executed from tasks. Only a few may be executed from interrupts. * Never disable interrupts or multitasking for long periods. If you use Forbid() or Disable() , you should be aware that execution of any system function that performs the Wait() function will temporarily suspend the Forbid() or Disable() state, and allow multitasking and interrupts to occur. Such functions include almost all forms of DOS and device I/O, including common stdio functions like printf() . * Never tie up system resources unless it is absolutely necessary. For example, if your program does not require constant use of the printer, open the printer device only when you need it. This will allow other tasks to use the printer while your program is running. You must provide a reasonable error response if a resource is not available when you need it. * All data for the custom chips must reside in Chip memory (type MEMF_CHIP ). This includes bitplanes, sound samples, trackdisk buffers, and images for sprites, bobs, pointers, and gadgets. The AllocMem() call takes a flag for specifying the type of memory. A program that specifies the wrong type of memory may appear to run correctly because many Amigas have only Chip memory. (On all models of the Amiga, the first 512K of memory is Chip memory. In later models, Chip memory may occupy up to the first one or two megabytes). However, once expansion memory has been added to an Amiga (type MEMF_FAST ), any memory allocations will be made in the expansion memory area by default. Hence, a program can run correctly on an unexpanded Amiga which has only Chip memory while crashing on an Amiga which has expanded memory. A developer with only Chip memory may fail to notice that memory was incorrectly specified. Most compilers have options to mark specific data structures or object modules so that they will load into Chip RAM . Some older compilers provide the Atom utility for marking object modules. If this method is unacceptable, use the AllocMem() call to dynamically allocate Chip memory, and copy your data there. When making allocations that do not require Chip memory , do not explicitly ask for Fast memory . Instead ask for memory type MEMF_PUBLIC or 0L as appropriate. If Fast memory is available, you will get it. * Never use software delay loops! Under the multitasking operating system, the time spent in a loop can be better used by other tasks. Even ignoring the effect it has on multitasking, timing loops are inaccurate and will wait different amounts of time depending on the specific model of Amiga computer. The timer device provides precision timing for use under the multitasking system and it works the same on all models of the Amiga. The AmigaDOS Delay() function or the graphics library WaitTOF() function provide a simple interface for longer delays. The 8520 I/O chips provide timers for developers who are bypassing the operating system (see the Amiga Hardware Reference Manual for more information). * Always obey structure conventions! · All non-byte fields must be word-aligned. Longwords should be longword-aligned for performance. · All address pointers should be 32 bits (not 24 bits). Never use the upper byte for data. · Fields that are not defined to contain particular initial values must be initialized to zero. This includes pointer fields. · All reserved or unused fields must be initialized to zero for future compatibility. · Data structures to be accessed by the custom chips , public data structures (such as a task control block), and structures which must be longword aligned must not be allocated on a program's stack. · Dynamic allocation of structures with AllocMem() provides longword aligned memory of a specified type with optional initialization to zero, which is useful in the allocation of structures. For 68010/68020/68030/68040 Compatibility Hardware Programming Guidelines Additional Assembler Development Guidelines [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]