27 / Advanced Topics / Hold-And-Modify Mode ]" border=0> In hold-and-modify mode you can create a single-playfield, low-resolution display in which 4,096 different colors can be displayed simultaneously. This requires your ViewPort to be defined with six bitplanes. Under 1.3, you specify HAM mode by setting the HAM flag in the ViewPort.Modes field. Under Release 2, you specify HAM by selecting any ModeID which includes HAM in its name as defined in displayinfo.h >. When you draw into the BitMap associated with this ViewPort , you can choose colors in one of four different ways. If you draw using color numbers 0 to 15, the pixel you draw will appear in the color specified in that particular system color register. If you draw with any other color value (16 to 63) the color displayed depends on the color of the pixel that is to the immediate left of this pixel on the screen. To see how this works, consider how the bitplanes are used in HAM. Hold-and-modify mode requires six bitplanes. Planes 5 and 6 are used to modify the way bits from planes 1 through 4 are treated, as follows: * If the bit combination from planes 6 and 5 for any given pixel is 00, normal color selection procedure is followed. Thus, the bit combinations from planes 4 to 1, in that order of significance, are used to choose one of 16 color registers (registers 0 through 15). * If the bit combination in planes 6 and 5 is 01, the color of the pixel immediately to the left of this pixel is duplicated and then modified. The bit combinations from planes 4 through 1 are used to replace the four bits representing the blue value of the preceding pixel color. (No color registers are changed.) * If the bit combination in planes 6 and 5 is 10, then the color of the pixel immediately to the left of this pixel is duplicated and modified. The bit combinations from planes 4 through 1 are used to replace the four bits representing the red value of the preceding pixel color. * If the bit combination in planes 6 and 5 is 11, then the color of the pixel immediately to the left of this pixel is duplicated and modified. The bit combinations from planes 4 through 1 are used to replace the four bits representing the green value of the preceding pixel color. You can use just five bitplanes in HAM mode. In that case, the data for the sixth plane is automatically assumed to be 0. Note that for the first pixel in each line, hold-and-modify begins with the background color. The color choice does not carry over from the preceding line. Note: ----- Since a typical hold-and-modify pixel only changes one of the three RGB color values at a time, color selection is limited. HAM mode does allow for the display of 4,096 colors simultaneously, but there are only 64 color options for any given pixel (not 4,096). The color of a pixel depends on the color of the preceding pixel. [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]