D / Errors / Memory Loss ]" border=0> First determine that your program is actually causing a memory loss. It is important to boot with a standard Workbench because a number of third party items such as some background utilities, shells, and network handlers dynamically allocate and free pieces of memory. Open a Shell for memory checking, and a Shell or Workbench drawer for starting your program. Arrange windows so that all are accessible, and so that no window rearrangement will be needed to run your program. In the Shell, type Avail FLUSH several times (2.0 option). This will flush all non-open disk-loaded fonts, devices, etc., from memory. Note the amount of free memory. Now without rearranging any windows, start your program and use all of your program features. Exit your program, wait a few seconds, then type Avail FLUSH several times. Note the amount of free memory. If this matches the first value you noted, your program is fine, and is not causing a memory loss. If memory was actually lost, and your program can be run from CLI or Workbench, then try the above procedure with both methods of starting your program. Note that under 2.0, there will be a slight permanent (until reboot) memory usage of about 672 bytes when the audio.device or narrator.device is first opened. See " Memory Loss--CLI Only " and " Memory Loss--WorkBench Only " if appropriate. If you lose memory from both WB and CLI, then check all of the open/alloc/get/create/lock type calls in your code, and make sure that there is a matching close/free/delete/unlock type call for each of them (note--there are a few system calls that have or require no corresponding free--check the Autodocs). Generally, the close/free/delete/unlock calls should be in opposite order of the allocations. If you are losing a fixed small amount of memory, look for a structure of that size in the Structure Offsets listing in the Amiga ROM Kernel Reference Manual: Includes and Autodocs. For example, a loss of exactly 24 bytes is probably a Lock() which has not been UnLock() ed. If you are using ScrollRaster() , be aware that ScrollRaster() left or right in a Superbitmap window with no TmpRas will lose memory under 1.3 (workaround--attach a TmpRas). If you lose much more memory when started from Workbench, make sure your program is not using Exit (n). This would bypass startup code cleanups and prevent a Workbench-loaded program from being unloaded. Use exit(n) instead. [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]