5 / Gadget Size and Position / Select Box Dimension ]" border=0> The height and width of the gadget select box can be absolute or they can be relative to the height and width of the display element in which the gadget resides. Set the gadget's GFLG_RELWIDTH flag to make the gadget's width relative to the width of the window. When this flag is set, the Width value is added to the current window width to determine the width of the gadget select box. The Width value is usually negative in this case, making the width of the gadget smaller than the width of the window. If GFLG_RELWIDTH is not set, Width will specify the actual width of the select box. The actual width of the box will be recomputed each time the window is sized. Setting GFLG_RELWIDTH and a gadget width of zero will create a gadget that is always as wide as the window, regardless of how the window is sized. The GFLG_RELHEIGHT flag has the same effect on the height of the gadget select box. If the flag is set, the height of the select box will be relative to the height of the window, and the actual height will be recomputed each time the window is sized. If the flag is not set, the value will specify the actual height of the select box. Here are a few examples of gadgets that take advantage of the special relativity modes of the select box. Consider the Intuition window sizing gadget. The LeftEdge and TopEdge of this gadget are both defined relative to the right and bottom edges of the window. No matter how the window is sized, the gadget always appears in the lower right corner. For the window drag gadget, the LeftEdge and TopEdge are always absolute in relation to the top left corner of the window. Height of this gadget is always an absolute quantity. Width of the gadget, however, is defined to be zero. When Width is combined with the effect of the GFLG_RELWIDTH flag, the drag gadget is always as wide as the window. For a program with several requesters, each of which has an "OK" gadget in the lower left corner and a "Cancel" gadget in the lower right corner, two gadgets may be designed that will appear in the correct position regardless of the size of the requester. Design the "OK" and "Cancel" gadgets such that they are relative to the lower left and lower right corners of the requester. Regardless of the size of the requesters, these gadgets will appear in the correct position relative to these corners. Note that these gadgets may only be used in one window or requester at a time. [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]