13 Preferences / Preferences in 1.3 and Older Versions of the OS ]" border=0> In 1.3, the Preferences program allows the user to see and change many system wide parameters, like the Workbench colors, pointer image, printer settings etc. When a Preferences item is changed, the new setting can be used temporarily (until a reset occurs) or stored permanently in the devs:system-configuration file. Under 1.3, all Preferences items are stored in this file which the system reads at boot time to find out how to set various system-wide options. The 1.3 Preferences system allows the user to change the following items: * Date and time of day. These are automatically saved in the battery-backed clock, if one is present. * Key repeat speed - the speed at which a key repeats when held down. * Key repeat delay - the amount of delay before a key begins repeating. * Mouse speed - how fast the pointer moves when the user moves the mouse. * Double-click delay - maximum time allowed between the two clicks of a mouse double click. For information about how to test for double-click timeout, see the description of the DoubleClick() function in the Amiga ROM Kernel Reference Manual: Includes and Autodocs . * Text size - size of the default font characters. The user can choose 64-column mode (64 characters on a line in high-resolution and 32 characters in low-resolution mode) or 80 column mode (80 characters on a line in high-resolution and 40 characters in low-resolution mode). The first variable in the Preferences structure is FontHeight, which is the height of the characters in display lines. If this is equal to the constant TOPAZ_EIGHTY, the user has chosen the 80-column mode. If it is equal to TOPAZ_SIXTY, the user has chosen the 64-column mode. Note that certain utility programs allow the user to change the default font under 1.3, so you cannot rely on the default font being Topaz 8 or 9. * Display centering - allows the user to center the image on the video display. * Serial port - the user can change the baud rate and other serial port parameters to accommodate whatever device is attached to the serial connector. Normally you use these values as defaults when you open the serial device. If you change the baud rate or other serial port options locally, it is good practice to reset them to the values specified in Preferences before quitting. * Workbench colors - the user can change any of the four colors in the 1.3 Workbench screen by adjusting the amounts of red, green and blue in each color. * Printer - the user can select from a number of printers supported by the Amiga and also indicate whether the printer is connected to the serial connector or the parallel connector. * Print characteristics - the user can select paper size, right and left margin, continuous feed or single sheets, draft or letter quality, pitch and line spacing. For graphic printing, the user can specify the density, scaling method, select a vertical or horizontal dump, etc. Reading 1.3 Preferences Setting 1.3 Preferences Preferences Structure in 1.3 Alternatives to SetPrefs [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]