9 / / Event Message Classes and Flags / Mouse Flags ]" border=0> IDCMP_MOUSEBUTTONS Contains reports about mouse button up and down events. The events will be sent to the application only if they are not used internally by Intuition. The Code field contains information on the specific mouse button event this message represents. The Code field will be equal to SELECTDOWN, SELECTUP, MENUDOWN, MENUUP, MIDDLEDOWN or MIDDLEUP, depending on the button pressed or released. In general, the select button is the left mouse button, the menu button is the right mouse button and the middle button is an optional third button usually located between the select and menu buttons. Often, a mouse button event has extra meaning to Intuition, and the application may hear about it through a more specific message, for example a gadget or menu event. Other times, no event is generated at all, such as when the user depth-arranges a screen by clicking on the screen depth gadget. Note that menu button events are normally consumed by Intuition for menu handling. If an application wishes to hear IDCMP_MOUSEBUTTONS events for the menu button, it must set the WA_RMBTrap attribute for its window. See the " Intuition Windows " chapter for more information. IDCMP_MOUSEMOVE Reports about mouse movements, sent in the form of x and y coordinates relative to the upper left corner of the window. One message will be sent to the application for each "tick" of the mouse. The application can opt to receive IDCMP_MOUSEMOVE events only while certain gadgets are active, or during normal window operation. These events are sent whenever a gadget with GACT_FOLLOWMOUSE gadget is active, or for any window that has the WA_ReportMouse attribute set. This window attribute can be set or cleared by the application at will. See the " Intuition Windows " chapter for full details. Requesting IDCMP_MOUSEMOVE messages can create a very large volume of messages arriving at the window's IDCMP. Do not request these messages unless the program is prepared to keep up with them. Starting in V36, Intuition limits the number of mouse move events that pile up at your IDCMP. All IDCMP messages contain a mouse x and y position that can be absolute values or delta values. See IDCMP_DELTAMOVE, below. If the application requires a less frequent reporting of the mouse position, consider using IDCMP_INTUITICKS . While IDCMP_MOUSEMOVE events are generated by changes in the mouse's position, IDCMP_INTUITICKS IntuiMessage s are based on a timer. Since they contain mouse coordinates, they effectively sample the mouse position. These message come often enough for many applications, but not so frequently as to swamp the application. The program will not be sent IDCMP_MOUSEMOVE messages while Intuition has the layers of the screen locked (during menu operations and window sizing/dragging). This avoids problems of messages accumulating while the program is blocked, waiting to render into a locked layer. IDCMP_DELTAMOVE IDCMP_DELTAMOVE is not a message type, and events will never be sent to the application with this IDCMP identifier. This flag is a modifier, which changes how mouse movements are reported. When this flag is set, mouse movements are sent as delta values rather than as absolute positions. The deltas are the amount of change of the mouse position from the last reported position. If the mouse does not move, then the delta values will be zero. This flag works in conjunction with the IDCMP_MOUSEMOVE flag. When IDCMP_DELTAMOVE is set, IDCMP_MOUSEBUTTONS messages will also have relative values, instead of the absolute window position of the mouse. Delta mouse movements are reported even after the Intuition pointer has reached the limits of the display. That is, if the pointer has reached the edge of the display and the user continues to move the mouse in the same direction, the IDCMP_MOUSEMOVE messages will continue to report changes in the mouse position even though the pointer is no longer moving. [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]