5 Intuition Gadgets / String Gadget Type ]" border=0> A string gadget is an area of the display in which a single field of character data may be entered. When a string gadget is activated, either by the user or by the application, a cursor appears prompting the user to enter some text. Any characters typed will be placed into the active string gadget, unless the gadget is deactivated by other mouse activity or program interaction. In Release 2, the system also supports tabbing between a group of string gadgets. In this mode, pressing the tab key will advance the active gadget to the next string gadget and pressing shifted tab will advance to the previous string gadget. Control characters are generally filtered out, but may be entered by pressing the Left Amiga key with the desired control character. The filtering may be disabled by the program, or by the user via the IControl Preferences editor. String gadgets feature auto-insert, which allows the user to insert characters wherever the cursor is. Overwrite mode is also available, and the application may toggle the gadget between the two modes. When the user activates a string gadget with the mouse, the gadget's cursor moves to the position of the mouse. The user may change the position of the cursor both with the cursor keys and with the mouse pointer. A number of simple, keyboard driven editing functions are available to the user. These editing functions are shown in the following table. Table 5-1: Editing Keys and Their Functions Key Function --- -------- Cursor to next character. Shift -> Cursor to end of string. Del Delete the character under the cursor. Does nothing in fixed field mode. Shift Del Delete from the character under the cursor to the end of the line. Does nothing in fixed field mode. Backspace Delete the character to left of cursor. In fixed field mode, move cursor to previous character. Shift Backspace Delete from the character to the left of the cursor to the start of the line. In fixed field mode, move cursor to beginning of string. Return or Enter Terminate input and deactivate the gadget. If the GACT_RELVERIFY activation flag is set, the program will receive a IDCMP_GADGETUP event for this gadget. Right Amiga Q Undo (cancel) the last editing change to the string. Right Amiga X Clears the input buffer. The undo buffer is left undisturbed. In fixed field mode, move cursor to beginning of string. The following additional editing functions are available only when "Filter Control Characters" is on for the string gadget. Control character filtering is only available if the IControl preferences editor has "Text Gadget Filter" selected and the individual gadget does not have SGM_NOFILTER set. Table 5-2: Additional Editing Keys and Their Functions Key Function --- -------- Ctrl A Jump cursor to start of buffer. Ctrl H Delete the character to the left of the cursor. In fixed field mode, move cursor to previous character. Ctrl K Delete from the character under the cursor to the end of the string. Does nothing in fixed field mode. Ctrl M Equivalent to Return or Enter (end gadget). Ctrl W Delete the previous word. In fixed field mode, jump cursor to the start of the previous word. Ctrl U Delete from the character to the left of the cursor to the start of the buffer. In fixed field mode, jump cursor to the start of the buffer. Ctrl X Clears the input buffer (like Right Amiga X). In fixed field mode, jump cursor to the start of the buffer. Ctrl Z Jump cursor to end of buffer. Integer Gadget Type StringInfo Structure String Gadget IDCMP Messages Extended String Gadgets Program Control of String Gadgets Custom String Editing Tabbing Between String Gadgets Gadget Structure For String Gadgets [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]