VIII-31: A Shared Socket Library Server and Client ]" border=0> by John Wiederhirn and John Orr Wednesday is gyro day in CATS, so we have to go out to lunch and eat gyros. Because David the Engineer used to work in CATS, we are morally obligated to bring him along. Like the rest of the engineers, David is usually working very hard and doesn't notice what time it is, so we have to remind him that it's time to leave for lunch. Unfortunately, David can't hear us yelling to him in the Engineering department, so we needed an alternate way to tell David that is was time for lunch. The only logical conclusion was to write a program that uses the Shared Socket Library to make a requester pop up on David's Workbench screen telling him it is lunch time. To write a network application for the Shared Socket Library you will need two things: 1) An understand the material in the article " Developing Network Applications for the Amiga " from the January/February 1992 issue of Amiga Mail. 2) The Shared Socket Library include files and Autodocs (which are on the Network Developer's Disk and the Denver/Milano 1991 Devcon disks) @rem link used to go to "cats_cd:devcon_disks/devcon_91/contents_91.2/Network!Socket" This application has to be broken into two pieces, a client and a server. The client program will send out the notes. On Amiga A, the user runs the client (SendNote), passing it a note string (like "David, it's time to eat") and a machine address for Amiga B. The client then sends a note request off to the note server (ShowNote) on Amiga B. When the note server gets the note request, it pops up an EasyRequest containing the note on Amiga B. The server waits for the user to click an "OK" gadget, then sends back an acknowledgement to the client. There are a couple of decisions to make about the application before coding anything. First, there are two transport protocols to choose from: TCP and UDP. To make things easier, this application uses TCP because it is a reliable protocol, so the application doesn't have to worry about making sure data makes it across the network. The application uses a client/server model, but there are two of those models to choose from: iterative and concurrent. Because this application does not need to handle more than one request at the same time, the iterative server is a better choice. This also makes coding easier. The Application Protocol The ShowNote Server Application Listening for Network and Amiga Events Identifying Network Events and Talking to the Client Starting the ShowNote Server The SendNote Client Application Resolving the Target (Host) Address Locating the Server Port and Connecting to It Starting the SendNote Client Note.h SendNote.c ShowNote.c [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]