SOURCE: Libraries_Manual_guide/node01A7.html
TITLE: 7 / True Requesters / Gadgets in Requesters

7 / True Requesters / Gadgets in Requesters ]" border=0> Each requester gadget must have the GTYP_REQGADGET flag set in the GadgetType field of its Gadget structure. This informs Intuition that this gadget is to be rendered in a requester rather than a window. Requesters can have gadgets in them that automatically satisfy the request and end the requester. When one of these gadgets is selected, Intuition will remove the requester from the window. This is equivalent to the application calling EndRequest() , and, if the request is terminated by selection of such a gadget, the application should not call EndRequest() for that requester. Set the GACT_ENDGADGET flag in the Activation field of the Gadget structure to create a gadget that automatically terminates the requester. Every time one of the requester's gadgets is selected, Intuition examines the GACT_ENDGADGET flag. If GACT_ENDGADGET is set, the requester is removed from the display and unlinked from the window's active requester list. Requesters rendered via Intuition and those that use a custom bitmap differ in how their gadgets are rendered. For requesters rendered via Intuition, the application supplies a regular gadget list just as it would for application gadgets in a window. In custom bitmap requesters, however, any gadget imagery is part of the bitmap supplied for the requester. Therefore the list of gadgets supplied for custom bitmap requesters should not provide gadget imagery but rather it should define only the select boxes, highlighting, and gadget types for the gadgets. The Gadget structures used with a custom bitmap requester should have their GadgetRender , SelectRender and GadgetText fields set to NULL as these will be ignored. Other gadget information--select box dimensions, highlighting, and gadget type--is still relevant. The select box information is especially important since the select box must have a well defined correspondence with the custom bitmap imagery supplied. The basic idea is to make sure that the user understands the requester imagery and gadgets. [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]
