SOURCE: Libraries_Manual_guide/node030B.html
TITLE: 26 / Servicing Interrupts / Interrupt Servers

26 / Servicing Interrupts / Interrupt Servers ]" border=0> As mentioned above , an interrupt server is one of possibly many system interrupt routines that are invoked as the result of a single 4703 interrupt. Interrupt servers provide an essential mechanism for interrupt sharing. Interrupt servers must be used for PORTS , COPER , VERTB , EXTER , or NMI interrupts. For these interrupts, all servers are linked together in a chain. Every server in the chain will be called in turn as long as the previous server returned with the processor's Z (zero) flag set. If you determine that an interrupt was specifically for your server, you should return with the processor's Z flag cleared (non-zero condition) so that the remaining servers on the chain will be skipped. Use The Z Flag. --------------- VERTB (vertical blank) servers should always return with the Z (zero) flag set. The processor Z flag is used rather than the normal function convention of returning a result in D0 because it may be tested more quickly by Exec upon the server's return. The easiest way to set the condition code register is to do an immediate move to the D0 register as follows: SetZflag_Calls_Next: MOVEQ #0,D0 RTS ClrZflag_Ends_Chain: MOVEQ #1,D0 RTS The same Exec Interrupt structure used for handlers is also used for servers. Also, like interrupt handlers, servers must terminate their code with an RTS instruction. Interrupt servers are called in priority order. The priority of a server is specified in its is_Node . ln_Pri field. Higher-priority servers are called earlier than lower-priority servers. Adding and removing interrupt servers from a particular chain is accomplished with the Exec AddIntServer() and RemIntServer() functions. These functions require you to specify both the 4703 interrupt number and a properly initialized Interrupt structure. Servers have different register values passed than handlers do. A server cannot count on the D0, D1, A0, or A6 registers containing any useful information. However, the highest priority system vertical blank server currently expects to receive a pointer to the custom chips A0. Therefore, if you install a vertical blank server at priority 10 or greater, you must place custom ($DFF000) in A0 before exiting. Other than that, a server is free to use D0-D1 and A0-A1/A5-A6 as scratch. Interrupt Server Register Usage [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]
