SOURCE: Libraries_Manual_guide/node0263.html
TITLE: 15 / / The Kinds of GadTools Gadgets / Mutually-Exclusive Gadgets

15 / / The Kinds of GadTools Gadgets / Mutually-Exclusive Gadgets ]" border=0> Use mutually exclusive gadgets (MX_KIND), or radio buttons, when the user must choose only one option from a short list of possibilities. Mutually exclusive gadgets are appropriate when there are a small number of choices, perhaps eight or less. A set of mutually exclusive gadgets consists of a list of labels and beside each label, a small raised oval that looks like a button. Exactly one of the ovals is recessed and highlighted, to indicate the selected choice. The user can pick another choice by clicking on any of the raised ovals. This choice will become active and the previously selected choice will become inactive. That is, the selected oval will become recessed while the previous one will pop out, like the buttons on a car radio. Mutually exclusive gadgets recognize these tags: GTMX_Labels (STRPTR *) A NULL-pointer-terminated array of strings which are to be the labels beside each choice in the set of mutually exclusive gadgets. This array determines how many buttons are created. This array must be supplied to CreateGadget() and may not be changed. The strings themselves must remain valid for the lifetime of the gadget. (Create only.) GTMX_Active (UWORD) The ordinal number, counting from zero, of the active choice of the set of mutually exclusive gadgets. The default is zero. (Create and set.) GTMX_Spacing (UWORD) The amount of space, in pixels, that will be placed between successive choices in a set of mutually exclusive gadgets. The default is one. (Create only.) When the user selects a new choice from a set of mutually exclusive gadgets, the program will receive an IDCMP_GADGETDOWN IntuiMessage. Look in the IntuiMessage 's Code field for the ordinal number of the new active selection. The ng_GadgetText field of the NewGadget structure is ignored for mutually exclusive gadgets. The text position specified in ng_Flags determines whether the item labels are placed to the left or the right of the radio buttons themselves. By default, the labels appear on the left. Do not specify PLACETEXT_ABOVE, PLACETEXT_BELOW or PLACETEXT_IN for this kind of gadget. Like the checkbox, the size of the radio button is currently fixed, and the dimensions supplied in the NewGadget structure are ignored. If in the future the buttons are made scalable, it will be done in a compatible manner. Currently, mutually exclusive gadgets may not be disabled. [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]
