SOURCE: Libraries_Manual_guide/node015A.html
TITLE: 5 / / Proportional Gadget Components / The Knob

5 / / Proportional Gadget Components / The Knob ]" border=0> The knob may be manipulated by the user to quickly change the pot variables . The knob acts like a real-world proportional control. For instance, a knob restricted to movement on a single axis can be thought of as a control such as the volume knob on a radio. A knob that moves on both axes is analogous to the control stick of an airplane. The user can directly move the knob by dragging it on the vertical or horizontal axis. The knob may be indirectly moved by clicking within the select box around the knob. With each click, the pot variable is increased or decreased by one increment, defined by the settings of the body variables . The current position of the knob reflects the pot value . A pot value of zero will place the knob in the top or leftmost position, a value of MAXPOT will place the knob at the bottom or rightmost position. The application can provide its own imagery for the knob or it may use Intuition's auto-knob. The auto-knob is a rectangle that changes its width and height according to the current body settings. The auto-knob is proportional to the size of the gadget. Therefore, an auto-knob can be used in a proportional gadget whose size is relative to the size of the window, and the knob will maintain the correct size, relative to the size of the container . Use Separate Imagery for Proportional Gadgets. ---------------------------------------------- These Image structures may not be shared between proportional gadgets, each must have its own. Again, do not share the Image structures between proportional gadgets. This does not work, either for auto-knob or custom imagery. Use Only One Image for the Knob. -------------------------------- Proportional gadget knob images may not be a list of images. These must be a single image, initialized and ready to display if a custom image is used for the knob. [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]
