SOURCE: Libraries_Manual_guide/node0409.html
TITLE: 31 Commodities Exchange Library / Sender CxObjects

31 Commodities Exchange Library / Sender CxObjects ]" border=0> A filter CxObject by itself is not especially useful. It needs some other CxObjects attached to it. A commodity interested in knowing if a specific key was pressed uses a filter to detect and divert the corresponding CxMessage down the filter's personal list. The filter does this without letting the commodity know what happened. The sender CxObject can be attached to a filter to notify a commodity that it received a CxMessage. CxSender() is a macro that creates a sender CxObject. senderCxObj = CxObj *CxSender(struct MsgPort *senderport, LONG cxmID); CxSender() supplies the sender with an Exec message port and an ID. For every CxMessage a sender receives, it sends a new CxMessage to the Exec message port passed in CxSender(). Normally, the commodity creates this port. It is not unusual for a commodity's broker and sender(s) to share an Exec message port. The HotKey.c example does this to avoid creating unnecessary message ports. A sender uses the ID (cxmID) passed to CxSender() as the ID for all the CxMessages that the it transmits. A commodity uses the ID to monitor CxMessages from several senders at a single message port. A sender does several things when it receives a CxMessage . First, it duplicates the CxMessage's corresponding input event and creates a new CxMessage. Then, it points the new CxMessage's data field to the copy of the input event and sets the new CxMessage's ID to the ID passed to CxSender() . Finally, it sends the new CxMessage to the port passed to CxSender(), asynchronously. Because HotKey uses only one message port between its broker and sender object, it has to extract the CxMessage 's type so it can tell if it is a CXM_IEVENT or a CXM_COMMAND. If HotKey gets a CXM_IEVENT, it compares the CxMessage's ID to the sender's ID, EVT_HOTKEY, to see which sender sent the CxMessage. Of course HotKey has only one sender, so it only checks for only one ID. If it had more senders, HotKey would check for the ID of each of the other senders as well. Although HotKey doesn't use it, a CXM_IEVENT CxMessage contains a pointer to the copy of an input event. A commodity can extract this pointer ( using CxMsgData() ) if it needs to examine the input event copy. This pointer is only valid before the CxMessage reply. Note that it does not make any sense to modify the input event copy. Senders are attached almost exclusively to CxObjects that filter out most input events (usually a filter CxObject ). Because a sender sends a CxMessage for every single input event it gets, it should only get a select few input events. The AttachCxObj() function can add a CxObject to the end of a filter's (or some other filtering CxObject's) personal list. A commodity should not attach a CxObject to a sender as a sender ignores any CxObjects in its personal list. [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]
