10 / The Mouse / Mouse Messages ]" border=0> Mouse events are broadcast to the application via the IDCMP or the console device. See the " Intuition Input and Output Methods " chapter in this book for information on the IDCMP. See the " Console Device " chapter in the Amiga ROM Kernel Reference Manual: Devices for more about the console device. Simple mouse button activity not associated with any Intuition function will be reported to the window as an IntuiMessage with a Class of IDCMP_MOUSEBUTTONS . The IntuiMessage Code field will be set to SELECTDOWN, SELECTUP, MIDDLEDOWN, MIDDLEUP, MENUDOWN or MENUUP to specify changes in the state of the left, middle and right buttons, respectively. Direct select button events will not be received by the program if the select button is pressed while the pointer is positioned over a gadget or other object which uses the button event. For example, select button activity over a gadget is reported with a Class of IDCMP_GADGETDOWN or IDCMP_GADGETUP . The gadget is said to have consumed the mouse events and produced gadget events. If the menu system is enabled, menu selections appear with a Class of IDCMP_MENUPICK . To directly receive menu button events, the application must set the flag WFLG_RMBTRAP for the window either when the window is opened or by changing the flag in a single, atomic operation. See the chapter " Intuition Windows " for more information on the flag WFLG_RMBTRAP. The program receives mouse position changes in the event Class IDCMP_MOUSEMOVE . The MouseX and MouseY position coordinates describe the position of the mouse relative to the upper left corner of the reference window. These coordinates are always in the resolution of the screen being used, and may represent any pixel position on the screen, even though the hardware sprites can be positioned only on the even numbered pixels of a high resolution screen and on the even numbered rows of an interlaced screen. Enabling IDCMP_MOUSEMOVE messages is discussed below in the section on " The Pointer ". To get mouse movement reported as deltas (amount of change from the last position) instead of as absolute positions, set the IDCMP flag IDCMP_DELTAMOVE . When IDCMP_DELTAMOVE is set, the IDCMP_MOUSEMOVE messages received by the program will have delta values rather than absolute values. Note that IDCMP_DELTAMOVE is simply a flag used to modify the behavior of IDCMP_MOUSEMOVE, and that no messages of class IDCMP_DELTAMOVE are ever sent. Each window has a queue limit for the number of IDCMP_MOUSEMOVE messages waiting on its IDCMP at any given time. If the number of mouse move messages waiting at the IDCMP is equal to the queue limit, then Intuition will discard additional IDCMP_MOUSEMOVE messages until the application replies to one of the queued mouse move messages. The default queue limit for mouse move messages is five. Be aware that this may cause some data loss, especially when the application is using IDCMP_DELTAMOVE , as the information contained in the discarded messages is not repeated. When using IDCMP_DELTAMOVE, this could cause the application to lose track of the actual pointer position. The application may wish to change the default mouse queue size if it is unable to reply to messages queued at the IDCMP for an extended period. The mouse queue can be set when the window is opened by using the WA_MouseQueue tag, and may later be modified using the SetMouseQueue() call. Note that the actual mouse position is always available to the application through the Window structure MouseX and MouseY . [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]