SOURCE: Libraries_Manual_guide/node014B.html
TITLE: 5 / Gadget Structure / Gadget Activation Flags

5 / Gadget Structure / Gadget Activation Flags ]" border=0> These flags may be set in the Activation field of the Gadget structure. GACT_TOGGLESELECT This flag applies only to boolean gadgets, and tells Intuition that this is to be a toggle-select gadget, not a hit-select one. Preset the selection state with the gadget flag GFLG_SELECTED (see above). The program may check if the gadget is in the selected state by examining the GFLG_SELECTED flag at any time. GACT_IMMEDIATE If this bit is set, the program will be sent an IDCMP_GADGETDOWN message when the gadget is first picked. The message will be sent when the user presses the mouse select button. GACT_RELVERIFY This is short for "release verify." If this bit is set, the program will be sent an IDCMP_GADGETUP message when the gadget is deactivated. IDCMP_GADGETUP will be sent for boolean gadgets when the user releases the mouse select button while the pointer is over the select box, for proportional gadgets whenever the user releases the mouse select button (regardless of the pointer position), and for string and integer gadgets when the user completes the text entry by pressing return or tabbing to the next gadget (where supported). For boolean gadgets, if the user releases the mouse button while the pointer is outside of the gadget's select box IDCMP_GADGETUP will not be generated. Instead, the program will receive an IDCMP_MOUSEBUTTONS event with the SELECTUP code set. For string gadgets, if the user deactivates the gadget by clicking elsewhere, it may not be possible to detect. GACT_ENDGADGET This flag pertains only to gadgets attached to requesters. If a gadget with the GACT_ENDGADGET flag set is chosen by the user the requester will be terminated as if the application had called the EndRequest() function. See the chapter " Intuition Requesters and Alerts ," for more information about requester gadget considerations. GACT_FOLLOWMOUSE These flags may be set in the Activation field of the Gadget structure. As long as a gadget that has this flag set is active, the program will receive mouse position messages for each change of mouse position. For GTYP_BOOLGADGET gadgets, GACT_RELVERIFY must also be set for the program to receive mouse events. The following flags are used to place application gadgets into a specified window border. Intuition will adjust the size of a window's borders appropriately provided these gadgets are set up with a call to OpenWindow() , OpenWindowTags() or OpenWindowTagList() . Intuition knows to refresh gadgets marked with these flags when the window border is changed, e.g., when the window is activated. For GimmeZeroZero windows, the GTYP_GZZGADGET flag must also be set for border gadgets. GACT_RIGHTBORDER If this flag is set, the gadget is placed in the right border of the window and the width and position of this gadget are used in deriving the width of the window's right border. GACT_LEFTBORDER If this flag is set, the gadget is placed in the left border of the window and the width and position of this gadget are used in deriving the width of the window's left border. GACT_TOPBORDER If this flag is set, the gadget is placed in the top border of the window and the height and position of this gadget are used in deriving the height of the window's top border. GACT_BOTTOMBORDER If this flag is set, the gadget is placed in the bottom border of the window and the height and position of this gadget are used in deriving the height of the window's bottom border. The following flags apply only to string gadgets: GACT_STRINGCENTER If this flag is set, the text in a string gadget is centered within the select box. GACT_STRINGRIGHT If this flag is set, the text in a string gadget is right justified within the select box. GACT_STRINGLEFT This "flag" has a value of zero. By default, the text in a string gadget is left justified within the select box. GACT_LONGINT If this flag is set, the user can construct a 32-bit signed integer value in a normal string gadget. The input buffer of the string gadget must be initialized with an ASCII representation of the starting integer value. GACT_ALTKEYMAP These flags may be set in the Activation field of the Gadget structure. A pointer to the keymap must be placed in the StringInfo structure variable AltKeyMap . GACT_BOOLEXTEND This flag applies only to boolean gadgets. If this flag is set, then the boolean gadget has a BoolInfo structure associated with it. A pointer to the BoolInfo structure must be placed in the SpecialInfo field of the Gadget structure. GACT_STRINGEXTEND This is an obsolete flag originally defined in V36. It applies only to string gadgets and indicates that StringInfo.Extension points to a valid StringExtend structure. Although this flag works, it is not ignored prior to V36 as it should be in order to be backward compatible. This flag is replaced by GFLG_STRINGEXTEND in V37. GFLG_STRINGEXTEND performs the same function and is properly ignored on systems prior to V36. [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]
