SOURCE: Libraries_Manual_guide/node01E1.html
TITLE: 9 / / Event Message Classes and Flags / Other Flags

9 / / Event Message Classes and Flags / Other Flags ]" border=0> IDCMP_VANILLAKEY IDCMP_VANILLAKEY messages return keyboard events translated into the current default character keymap. The mapped character value is returned in the Code field of the IntuiMessage structure. An IDCMP_VANILLAKEY message is sent only if the translation results in a single byte value, therefore the program cannot read the Help or function keys using IDCMP_VANILLAKEY. Starting with V36, programs using IDCMP_VANILLAKEY which also require the additional information of special keys, such as the Help key and the function keys, may set both IDCMP_VANILLAKEY and IDCMP_RAWKEY. When this combination is used, all keypresses that map to single character values will be returned as IDCMP_VANILLAKEY events; all other keyboard events will be sent as IDCMP_RAWKEY messages. Note that IDCMP_VANILLAKEY processing uses all of the key-up events, so the application will only receive key-down events in the IDCMP_RAWKEY format. IDCMP_RAWKEY IDCMP_RAWKEY messages give the raw keycodes from the keyboard. The numeric value of the keycode is sent in the Code field. Separate codes are returned for key down and key up. Qualifier codes, such as Shift or Alt and whether this key is a repeat, may be found in the Qualifier field of the message. In general, the application should not assume any correspondence between the keycode and the key value. Character positions on the keyboard change from country to country, and the application should respect the keymap set by the user. Programs using IDCMP_RAWKEY messages should perform their own key mapping by calling the console.device function RawKeyConvert() , or the keymap.library function MapRawKey() . (The latter is a bit more convenient, but is only available under V36 and higher). The Autodoc for the MapRawKey() function shows how you can process so-called dead keys. A dead key is a key combination that has no immediate effect, but instead modifies a subsequent keystroke. For example, on the default keymap, Alt-F is a dead key for the acute accent mark. The sequence of Alt-F followed by the E key yields an é with an acute accent. For an example of key mapping using the RawKeyConvert() call, see the rawkey.c example in the "Intuition Mouse and Keyboard" chapter. The application can assume that certain keys will always return the same raw keycode, these keys do not have to be mapped. In general these keys are in the high part of the keymap, above hex 40, and includes all non-alphanumeric keys. The fixed keys include the function keys, backspace, delete, help and cursor keys. IDCMP_NEWPREFS IDCMP_NEWPREFS messages are sent when the system Preferences are changed by a call to SetPrefs() . The program can learn of these changes by setting this flag. After receiving a message of class IDCMP_NEWPREFS, the application should call GetPrefs() to obtain a copy of the new Preferences. Under the new Preferences scheme used in Release 2 and later versions of the OS, an IDCMP_NEWPREFS message will not always be sent when the user changes a Preferences setting. Only Preferences values available under V34, i.e., those that can be modified by a call to SetPrefs() , will cause an IDCMP_NEWPREFS message to be sent. New Preferences items such as overscan or font settings rely on filesystem notification for monitoring changes. See the chapter on " Preferences " for more information. This message type is broadcast to all IDCMP that have this flag set, not just to the active window. If the application has this flag set, it should be prepared to handle the event even if it is not active. IDCMP_DISKINSERTED and IDCMP_DISKREMOVED When the user inserts or removes a floppy disk from any drive, Intuition will send one of these message types. This message type is broadcast to all IDCMP that have this flag set, not just to the active window. If the application has this flag set, it should be prepared to handle the event even if it is not active. IDCMP_INTUITICKS Intuition sends these messages to the active window based on an internal timer which "ticks" roughly ten times a second. This provides the application with simple timer events from Intuition. Intuition does not allow IDCMP_INTUITICKS events to accumulate at a port. After an IDCMP_INTUITICKS message has been sent to a port, Intuition will not send another until the application replies to the first. This means that an application that has not been able to service the IDCMP for an extended period can expect at most one IDCMP_INTUITICKS message to be waiting at the port. These events are to be used as "prods", and not as time counters. Do not rely on the timing accuracy of the event, or on the exact frequency at which they appear. Remember, IDCMP_INTUITICKS will only be sent to the active window. If the user selects another window, the events will no longer be received at the first window. IDCMP_IDCMPUPDATE Used for notification from Boopsi custom gadgets. See the chapter on " BOOPSI " for more information. The IAddress field contains a pointer to a tag item list. Tag lists are described in the chapter " Utility Library ". IDCMP_CHANGEWINDOW This message provides the window with notification of any change in the size or position of a window. There are two other message classes reserved for system use: IDCMP_WBENCHMESSAGE Special messages for Workbench, system use only. IDCMP_LONELYMESSAGE For internal tracking by Intuition, system use only. [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]
