17 Introduction to Exec / Dynamic Memory Allocation ]" border=0> The Amiga has a soft machine architecture, meaning that all tasks, including those that are part of its operating system, do not use fixed memory addresses. As a result, any program that needs to use a chunk of memory must allocate that memory from the operating system. There are two functions on the Amiga for simple memory allocation: AllocMem() and AllocVec() . The two functions accept the same parameters, a ULONG containing the size of the memory block in bytes followed by 32-bit specifier for memory attributes. Both functions return the address of a longword aligned memory block if they were successful or NULL if something went wrong. AllocVec() differs from AllocMem() in that it records the size of the memory block allocated so an application does not have to remember the size of a memory block it allocated. AllocVec() was introduced in Release 2, so it is not available to the 1.3 developer. Normally the bitmask of memory attributes passed to these functions will contain any of the following attributes (these flags are defined in memory.h >): MEMF_ANY This indicates that there is no requirement for either Fast or Chip memory. In this case, while there is Fast memory available, Exec will only allocate Fast memory. Exec will allocate Chip memory if there is not enough Fast memory. MEMF_CHIP This indicates the application wants a block of Chip memory, meaning it wants memory addressable by the Amiga custom chips. Chip memory is required for any data that will be accessed by custom chip DMA. This includes floppy disk buffers, screen memory, images that will be blitted, sprite data, copper lists, and audio data. If your application requires a block of Chip RAM, it must use this flag to allocate the Chip RAM. Otherwise, the application will fail on machines with expanded memory. MEMF_FAST This indicates a memory block outside of the range that the Amiga's custom chips can access. The "FAST" in MEMF_FAST has to do with the custom chips and the CPU trying to access the same memory at the same time. Because the custom chips and the CPU both have access to Chip RAM, the CPU may have to wait to access Chip RAM while some custom chip is reading or writing Chip RAM. In the case of Fast RAM, the custom chips do not have access to it, so the CPU does not have to contend with the custom chips access to Fast RAM, making CPU accesses to Fast RAM generally faster than CPU access to Chip RAM. Since the flag specifies memory that the custom chips cannot access, this flag is mutually exclusive with the MEMF_CHIP flag. If you specify the MEMF_FAST flag, your allocation will fail on Amigas that have only Chip memory. Use MEMF_ANY if you would prefer Fast memory. MEMF_PUBLIC This indicates that the memory should be accessible to other tasks. Although this flag doesn't do anything right now, using this flag will help ensure compatibility with possible future features of the OS (like virtual memory and memory protection). MEMF_CLEAR This indicates that the memory should be initialized with zeros. If an application does not specify any attributes when allocating memory, the system first looks for MEMF_FAST, then MEMF_CHIP. There are additional memory allocation flags for Release 2: MEM_LOCAL , MEMF_24BITDMA and MEMF_REVERSE . See the Exec Autodoc for AllocMem() in the Amiga ROM Kernel Reference Manual: Includes and Autodocs or the include file memory.h > for additional information on these flags. Use of these flags under earlier versions of the operating system will cause your allocation to fail. Make Sure You Have Memory. -------------------------- Always check the result of any memory allocation to be sure the type and amount of memory requested is available. Failure to do so will lead to trying to use an non-valid pointer. When an application is finished with a block of memory it allocated, it must return it to the operating system. There is a function to return memory for both the AllocMem() and the AllocVec() functions. FreeMem() releases memory allocated by AllocMem(). It takes two parameters, a pointer to a memory block and the size of the memory block. FreeVec() releases memory allocated by AllocVec() . It takes only one parameter, a pointer to a memory block allocated by AllocVec(). The following example shows how to allocate and deallocate memory. APTR my_mem; if (my_mem = AllocMem(100, MEMF_ANY)) { /* Your code goes here */ FreeMem(my_mem, 100); } else { /* couldn't get memory, exit with an error */ } [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]