5 / Gadget Size and Position / Select Box Position ]" border=0> To specify relative position or size for the gadget's select box, set or more of the flags GFLG_RELRIGHT , GFLG_RELBOTTOM , GFLG_RELWIDTH or GFLG_RELHEIGHT in the Flags field of the Gadget structure. When using GFLG_RELxxx flags, the gadget size or position is recomputed each time the window is sized. Positioning the Select Box. --------------------------- With GFLG_RELxxx gadgets, all of the imagery must be contained within the gadget's select box. This allows Intuition to erase the gadget's imagery when the window is sized. Intuition must be able to erase the gadget's imagery since the gadget's position or size will change as the window size changes. If the old one were not removed, imagery from both sizes/positions would be visible. If a GFLG_RELxxx gadget's imagery must extend outside of its select box, position another GFLG_RELxxx gadget with a larger select box such that all of the first gadget's imagery is within the second gadget's select box. This "shadow" gadget is only used to clear the first gadget's imagery and, as such, it should not have imagery nor should it generate any messages. It should also be positioned later in the gadget list than the first gadget so that its select box does not interfere with the first gadget. The left-right position of the select box is defined by the variable LeftEdge , which is an offset from either the left or right edge of the display element. The offset method is determined by the GFLG_RELRIGHT flag. For the LeftEdge variable, positive values move toward the right and negative values move toward the left of the containing display element. If GFLG_RELRIGHT is cleared, LeftEdge is an offset (usually a positive value) from the left edge of the display element. If GFLG_RELRIGHT is set, LeftEdge is an offset (usually a negative value) from the right edge of the display element. When this is set, the left-right position of the select box in the window is recomputed each time the window is sized. The gadget will automatically move with the left border as the window is sized. The top-bottom position of the select box is defined by the variable TopEdge , which is an offset from either the top or bottom edge of the display element (window or requester). The offset method is determined by the GFLG_RELBOTTOM flag. For the TopEdge variable, positive values move toward the bottom and negative values move toward the top of the containing display element. If GFLG_RELBOTTOM is cleared, TopEdge is an offset (usually a positive value) from the top of the display element. If GFLG_RELBOTTOM is set, TopEdge is an offset (usually a negative value) from the bottom of the display element. When this is set, the position of the select box is recomputed each time the window is sized. The gadget will automatically move with the bottom border as the window is sized. [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]