SOURCE: Libraries_Manual_guide/node0400.html
TITLE: 31 Commodities Exchange Library / Custom Input Handlers

31 Commodities Exchange Library / Custom Input Handlers ]" border=0> The input.device has a hand in almost all user input on the Amiga. It gathers input events from the keyboard, the gameport (mouse), and several other sources, into one input "stream". Special programs called input event handlers intercept input events along this stream, examining and sometimes changing the input events. Both Intuition and the console device use input handlers to process user input. Figure 31-1: The Amiga Input Stream Using the input.device, a program can introduce its own custom handler into the chain of input handlers at almost any point in the chain. "Hot key" programs, shell pop-up programs, and screen blankers all commonly use custom input handlers to monitor user input before it gets to the Intuition input handler. Figure 31-2: A Custom Input Handler Custom input handlers do have their drawbacks, however. Not only are these handlers hard to program, but because there is no standard way to implement and control them, multiple handlers often do not work well together. Their antisocial behavior can result in load order dependencies and incompatibilities between different custom input handlers. Even for the expert user, having several custom input handlers coexist peacefully can be next to impossible. Figure 31-3: The Commodities Network Commodities Exchange eliminates these problems by providing a simple, standardized way to program and control custom input handlers. It is divided into three parts: an Exec library, a controller program, and some amiga.lib functions. The Exec library is called commodities.library. When it is first opened, commodities.library establishes a single input handler just before Intuition in the input chain. When this input handler receives an input event, it creates a CxMessage (Commodities Exchange Message) corresponding to the input event, and diverts the CxMessage through the network of Commodities Exchange input handlers (Figure 31-3). These handlers are made up of trees of different CxObjects (Commodities Exchange Objects), each of which performs a simple operation on the CxMessages . Any CxMessages that exit the network are returned to the input.device's input stream as input events. Through function calls to the commodities.library, an application can install a custom input handler. A Commodities Exchange application, sometimes simply referred to as a commodity, uses the CxObject primitives to do things such as filter certain CxMessages , translate CxMessages, signal a task when a CxObject receives a CxMessage, send a message when a CxObject receives a CxMessage, or if necessary, call a custom function when a CxObject receives a CxMessage. The controller program is called Commodities Exchange. The user can monitor and control all the currently running Commodities Exchange applications from this one program. The user can enable and disable a commodity, kill a commodity, or, if the commodity has a window, ask the commodity to show or hide its window. When the user requests any of these actions, the controller program sends the commodity a message, telling it which action to perform. The third component of Commodities Exchange is its scanned library functions. These functions are part of the amiga.lib scanned library. They do a lot of the work involved with parsing command lines and Tool Types. Commodities Exchange is ideal for programs like hot keys/pop ups, screen blankers, and mouse blankers that need to monitor all user input. Commodities Exchange should never be used as an alternate method of receiving user input for an application. Other applications depend on getting user input in some form or another from the input stream. A greedy program that diverts input to itself rather than letting the input go to where the user expects it can seriously confuse the user, not to mention compromise the advantages of multitasking. [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]
