SOURCE: Libraries_Manual_guide/node02BC.html
TITLE: 21 Exec Tasks / Task Creation

21 Exec Tasks / Task Creation ]" border=0> To create a new task you must allocate a task structure, initialize its various fields, and then link AutoDocs/it into Exec with a call to AddTask() . The task structure may be allocated by calling the AllocMem() function with the MEMF_CLEAR and MEMF_PUBLIC allocation attributes. These attributes indicate that the data structure is to be pre-initialized to zero and that the structure is shared. The Task fields that require initialization depend on how you intend to use the task. For the simplest of tasks, only a few fields must be initialized: tc_Node The task list node structure. This includes the task's priority, its type, and its name (refer to the chapter " Exec Lists and Queues "). tc_SPLower The lower memory bound of the task's stack. tc_SPUpper The upper memory bound of the task's stack. tc_SPReg The initial stack pointer. Because task stacks grow downward in memory, this field is usually set to the same value as tc_SPUpper. Zeroing all other unused fields will cause Exec to supply the appropriate system default values. Allocating the structure with the MEMF_CLEAR attribute is an easy way to be sure that this happens. Once the structure has been initialized, it must be linked to Exec. This is done with a call to AddTask() in which the following parameters are specified: AddTask(struct Task *task, APTR initialPC, APTR finalPC ) The task argument is a pointer to your initialized Task structure. Set initialPC to the entry point of your task code. This is the address of the first instruction the new task will execute. Set finalPC to the address of the finalization code for your task. This is a code section that will receive control if the initialPC routine ever performs a return (RTS). This exists to prevent your task from being launched into random memory upon an accidental return. The finalPC routine should usually perform various program-related clean-up duties and should then remove the task. If a zero is supplied for this parameter, Exec will use its default finalization code (which simply calls the RemTask() function). Under Release 2, AddTask() returns the address of the newly added task or NULL for failure. Under 1.3 and older versions of the OS, no values are returned. Task Creation With Amiga.lib Task Stack Task Priority [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]
