SOURCE: Libraries_Manual_guide/node014A.html
TITLE: 5 / Gadget Structure / Gadget Flags

5 / Gadget Structure / Gadget Flags ]" border=0> The following are the flags that can be set in the Flags variable of the Gadget structure. There are four highlighting methods to choose from. These determine how the gadget imagery will be changed when the gadget is selected. One of these four flags must be set. GFLG_GADGHNONE Set this flag for no highlighting. GFLG_GADGHCOMP This flag chooses highlighting by complementing all of the bits contained within the gadget's select box. GFLG_GADGHBOX This flag chooses highlighting by drawing a complemented box around the gadget's select box. GFLG_GADGHIMAGE Set this flag to indicate highlighting with an alternate image. In addition to the highlighting flags, these other values may be set in the Flags field of the Gadget structure. GFLG_GADGIMAGE If the gadget has a graphic, and it is implemented with an Image structure, set this bit. If the graphic is implemented with a Border structure, make sure this bit is clear. This bit is also used by SelectRender to determine the rendering type. GFLG_RELBOTTOM Set this flag if the gadget's TopEdge variable describes an offset relative to the bottom of the display element (window or requester) containing it. A GFLG_RELBOTTOM gadget moves automatically as its window is made taller or shorter. Clear this flag if TopEdge is relative to the top of the display element. If GFLG_RELBOTTOM is set, TopEdge should contain a negative value, which will position it up from the bottom of the display element. GFLG_RELRIGHT Set this flag if the gadget's LeftEdge variable describes an offset relative to the right edge of the display element containing it. A GFLG_RELRIGHT gadget moves automatically as its window is made wider or narrower. Clear this flag if LeftEdge is relative to the left edge of the display element. If GFLG_RELRIGHT is set, LeftEdge should contain a negative value, which will position the gadget left of the right edge of the display element. GFLG_RELWIDTH Set this flag for "relative gadget width." If this flag is set, the width of the gadget's select box changes automatically whenever the width of its window changes. When using GFLG_RELWIDTH, set the gadget's Width to a negative value. This value will be added to the width of the gadget's display element (window or requester) to determine the actual width of the gadget's select box. GFLG_RELHEIGHT Set this flag for "relative gadget height." If this flag is set, the height of the gadget's select box changes automatically whenever the height of its window changes. When using GFLG_RELHEIGHT, set the gadget's Height to a negative value. This value will be added to the height of the gadget's display element (window or requester) to determine the actual height of the gadget's select box. GFLG_SELECTED Use this flag to preset the on/off selected state for a toggle-select boolean gadget (see the discussion of the GACT_TOGGLESELCT flag below). If the flag is set, the gadget is initially selected and is highlighted. If the flag is clear, the gadget starts off in the unselected state. To change the selection state of one or more gadgets, change their GFLG_SELECTED bits as appropriate, add them back and refresh them. However, see the section on " Updating a Gadget's Imagery " for important details. GFLG_DISABLED If this flag is set, this gadget is disabled. To enable or disable a gadget after the gadget has been added to the system, call the routines OnGadget() and OffGadget() . The GFLG_DISABLED flag can be programmatically altered in much the same way as GFLG_SELECTED above. See the section on " Updating a Gadget's Imagery " for important details. GFLG_STRINGEXTEND The StringInfo Extension field points to a valid StringExtend structure. Use of this structure is described later in the " String Gadget Type " section of this chapter. This flag is ignored prior to V37, see GACT_STRINGEXTEND for the same functionality under V36. Note that GACT_STRINGEXTEND is not ignored prior to V36 and should only be set in V36 or later systems. GFLG_TABCYCLE This string participates in cycling activation with the tab (or shifted tab) key. If this flag is set, the tab keys will de-activate this gadget as if the Return or Enter keys had been pressed, sending an IDCMP_GADGETUP message to the application, then the next string gadget with GFLG_TABCYCLE set will be activated. Shifted tab activates the previous gadget. [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]
