5 Intuition Gadgets / Gadget Selection ]" border=0> The user operates a gadget by pressing the select button while the mouse pointer is within the gadget's select box. Intuition provides two ways of notifying your program about the user operating a gadget. If your application needs immediate notification when the gadget is chosen, set the GACT_IMMEDIATE flag in the gadget's Activation field. Intuition will send an IDCMP_GADGETDOWN message to the window's UserPort when it detects the mouse select button being pressed on the gadget. If the application needs notification when the gadget is released, i.e., when the user releases the mouse select button, set the GACT_RELVERIFY (for "release verify") flag in the gadget's Activation field. For boolean gadgets, Intuition will send an IDCMP_GADGETUP message to the window's UserPort when the mouse select button is released over a GACT_RELVERIFY gadget. The program will only receive the IDCMP_GADGETUP message if the user still has the pointer positioned over the select box of the gadget when the mouse select button is released. If the user moves the mouse out of the gadget's select box before releasing the mouse button an IDCMP_MOUSEBUTTONS event will be sent with a code of SELECTUP. This indicates the user's desire to not proceed with the action. Boolean gadgets that are GACT_RELVERIFY allow the user a chance to cancel a selection by rolling the mouse off of the gadget before releasing the select button. String gadgets have a slightly different behavior, in that they remain active after the mouse button has been released. The gadget remains active until Return or Enter is pressed, the user tabs to the next or previous gadget, another window becomes active or the user chooses another object with the mouse. An IDCMP_GADGETUP message is only sent for GACT_RELVERIFY string gadgets if the user ends the gadget interaction through the Return, Enter or (if activated) one of the tab keys. GACT_RELVERIFY proportional gadgets send IDCMP_GADGETUP events even if the mouse button is released when the pointer is not positioned over the select box of the gadget. Gadgets can specify both the GACT_IMMEDIATE and GACT_RELVERIFY activation types, in which case, the program will receive both IDCMP_GADGETDOWN and IDCMP_GADGETUP messages. [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]