SOURCE: Libraries_Manual_guide/node02C3.html
TITLE: 21 / Task Exclusion / Disabling Tasks

21 / Task Exclusion / Disabling Tasks ]" border=0> Disabling is similar to forbidding, but it also prevents interrupts from occurring during a critical section. Disabling is required when a task accesses structures that are shared by interrupt code. It eliminates the possibility of an interrupt accessing shared structures by preventing interrupts from occurring. Use of disabling is strongly discouraged. To disable interrupts you can call the Disable() function. To enable interrupts again, use the Enable() function. Although assembler DISABLE and ENABLE macros are provided, assembler programmers should use the system functions rather than the macros for upwards compatibility, ease of debugging, and smaller code size. Like forbidden sections, disabled sections can be nested. To restore normal interrupt processing, an Enable() call must be made for every Disable() . Also like forbidden sections, any direct or indirect call to the Wait() function will enable interrupts until the task regains the processor. WARNING: -------- It is important to realize that there is a danger in using disabled sections. Because the software on the Amiga depends heavily on its interrupts occurring in nearly real time, you cannot disable for more than a very brief instant. Disabling interrupts for more than 250 microseconds can interfere with the normal operation of vital system functions, especially serial I/O. WARNING: -------- Masking interrupts by changing the 68000 processor interrupt priority levels with the MOVE SR instruction can also be dangerous and is very strongly discouraged. The disable- and enable-related functions control interrupts through the 4703 custom chip and not through the 68000 priority level. In addition, the processor priority level can be altered only from supervisor mode (which means this process is much less efficient). It is never necessary to both Disable() and Forbid() . Because disabling prevents interrupts, it also prevents preemptive task scheduling. When disable is used within an interrupt, it will have the effect of locking out all higher level interrupts (lower level interrupts are automatically disabled by the CPU). Many Exec lists can only be accessed while disabled. Suppose you want to print the names of all system tasks. You would need to access both the TaskReady and TaskWait lists from within a single disabled section. In addition, you must avoid calling system functions that would break a disable by an indirect call to Wait() ( printf() for example). In this example, the names are gathered into a list while task switching is disabled. Then task switching is enabled and the names are printed. tasklist.c [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]
