SOURCE: Libraries_Manual_guide/node01A9.html
TITLE: 7 / True Requesters / Double Menu Requesters

7 / True Requesters / Double Menu Requesters ]" border=0> A double menu requester is exactly like other requesters with one exception: it is displayed only when the user double clicks the mouse menu button. Double menu requesters block input in exactly the same manner as other true requesters. A double menu requester is attached to a window by calling SetDMRequest() . BOOL SetDMRequest( struct Window *window, struct Requester *requester ); This call does not display the requester, it simply prepares it for display. The requester will be brought up when the user double clicks the mouse menu button. The parent window will receive IDCMP_REQSET and IDCMP_REQCLEAR messages when the requester is added and removed. To prevent the user from bringing up a double menu requester, unlink it from the window by calling ClearDMRequest() . If a double menu request is set for a window, ClearDMRequest() should be called to remove the requester before that window is closed. BOOL ClearDMRequest( struct Window *window ); This function unlinks the requester from the window and disables the ability of the user to bring it up. ClearDMRequest() will fail if the double menu request is currently being displayed. Double menu requesters can be positioned relative to the current mouse pointer position. For a mouse relative requester, specify POINTREL in the Flags field and initialize the RelLeft and RelTop variables. RelLeft and RelTop describe the offset of the upper, left corner of the requester from the pointer position at the time the requester is displayed. These values can be either negative or positive. The values of RelLeft and RelTop are only advisory; the actual position will be restricted such that the requester is entirely contained within the borders of its parent window, if possible. The actual top and left positions are stored in the TopEdge and LeftEdge variables. Positioning relative to the mouse pointer is possible only with double menu requesters. Setting POINTREL in a requester which is not a double menu requester will position the requester relative to the center of the window. [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]
