5 / String Gadget Type / Gadget Structure For String Gadgets ]" border=0> To an application, a string gadget consists of a standard Gadget structure along with an entry buffer, an undo buffer and a number of extensions. For a string gadget, set the GadgetType field in the Gadget structure to GTYP_STRGADGET . Set the SpecialInfo field to point to an instance of a StringInfo structure, which must be initialized by the application. The container for a string gadget is its select box. The application specifies the size of the container. As the user types into the string gadget, the characters appear in the gadget's container. String gadgets may hold more characters than are displayable in the container . To use this feature, the application simply provides a buffer that is larger than the number of characters that will fit in the container. This allows the user to enter and edit strings that are much longer than the visible portion of the buffer. Intuition maintains the cursor position and scrolls the text in the container as needed. The application may specify the justification of the string in the container . The default is GACT_STRINGLEFT , or left justification. If the flag GACT_STRINGCENTER is set, the text is center justified; if GACT_STRINGRIGHT is set, the text is right justified. When the gadget is activated, the select box contents are redrawn, including the background area. If GFLG_STRINGEXTEND is set for the gadget or the gadget is using a proportional font by default, then the entire select box will be cleared regardless of the font size or StringInfo.MaxChars value. For compatibility reasons, if the string gadget is not extended then the following conditions apply (see the section on " Extending String Gadgets " for more information). * If the font is monospace (not proportional), the width of the gadget will be rounded down to an even multiple of the font width. * If the string gadget is left justified ( GACT_STRINGLEFT ), a maximum of StringInfo.MaxChars times the font width pixels of space will be cleared. Thus, if MaxChars is 3 (two characters plus the trailing NULL) and the font width is 8, then a maximum of 3 * 8 = 24 pixels will be cleared. If the font defaults to a proportional font, then the width returned by FontExtent() will be used as the character width. No facilities are provided to place imagery within the select box of a string gadget. String Gadget Imagery and Highlighting [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]