SOURCE: Libraries_Manual_guide/node01D2.html
TITLE: 9 / Intuition Input / Receiving Input Events from Intuition

9 / Intuition Input / Receiving Input Events from Intuition ]" border=0> There are two channels through which a window can receive events destined for it. The usual way is for the application to ask Intuition to send it messages which are based on the input event that Intuition has processed. These messages, called IntuiMessage s, are standard Amiga Exec messages, and are sent to a port called an Intuition Direct Communications Message Port, or IDCMP. Every window may have an IDCMP associated with it (pointed to by Window.UserPort ). There are many classes of IntuiMessage s, and the application can control which classes of events are routed to its window's port by setting the appropriate IDCMP flags. When Intuition has an event to send, but the window does not have the corresponding IDCMP flag set, the event is generally passed along to the next input handler in the chain. One input handler that resides below Intuition's is the console device's handler. If your application's window has a console attached to it, the console device will generally convert events it receives into console code sequences, and send those to your console. In this manner, you can hear these events. Because IntuiMessage s and the IDCMP are the primary way in which applications receive communication from Intuition, discussions elsewhere in the manual frequently refer to events from Intuition as messages, IntuiMessages, or IDCMP messages. However, most of the information sent as IntuiMessages is also available through the console device, though that option is used less often. Elsewhere in this chapter, you can learn how getting your events through the console differs from getting them through your IDCMP. Whichever way an application chooses to get its messages, it is frequently designed to be event-driven. That is to say, after some amount of initialization, the application will go into a state where it is waiting for some event to happen. This event could be an input event, or some other kind of event. Based on the event received, the application would take appropriate action, and return to its waiting state. [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]
