SOURCE: Libraries_Manual_guide/node0238.html
TITLE: 14 Workbench and Icon Library / The Info File

14 Workbench and Icon Library / The Info File ]" border=0> The iconic representation of Amiga filing system objects is implemented through .info files. In general, for each file, disk or directory that is visible in the Workbench environment, there is an associated .info file which contains the icon imagery and other information needed by Workbench. Icons are associated with a particular file or directory by name. For example, the icon for a file named myapp would be stored in a .info file named myapp.info in the same directory. To make your application program accessible (and visible) in the Workbench environment, you need only supply a .info file with the appropriate name and type. The are four main types of icons (and .info files) used to represent Amiga filing system objects (Table (14-1). Table 14-1: Basic Workbench Icon Types Workbench Filing Result When Icon Type System Object Icon Is Activated --------- ------------- ----------------- Disk The root level directory Window opens showing files and subdirectories Drawer A subdirectory Window opens showing files and subdirectories Tool An executable file Application runs (i.e., an application) Project A data file Typically, the application that created the data file runs and the data file is automatically loaded into it. Figure 14-1: Basic Workbench Icon Types Icons can be created with the IconEdit program (in the Tools directory of the Extras disk), or by copying an existing .info file of the correct type. Icons can also be created under program control with PutDiskObject() . See the discussion of the icon library functions below for more on this. For an executable file the icon type must be set to tool. For a data file the icon type must be set to project. Create icons for your application disk and directories too. For a directory, the icon is stored in a .info file at the same level where the directory name appears (not in the directory itself). The icon type should be set to drawer. The icon for a disk should always be stored in a file named disk.info at the root level directory of the disk. The icon type should be set to disk. (The icon type can be set and the icon imagery edited with the IconEdit program.) [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]
