cia.resource/AddICRVector ]" border=0> NAME AddICRVector -- attach an interrupt handler to a CIA bit. SYNOPSIS interrupt = AddICRVector( Resource, iCRBit, interrupt ) D0 A6 D0 A1 struct Interrupt *AddICRVector( struct Library *, WORD, struct Interrupt * ); FUNCTION Assign interrupt processing code to a particular interrupt bit of the CIA ICR. If the interrupt bit has already been assigned, this function will fail, and return a pointer to the owner interrupt. If it succeeds, a null is returned. This function will also enable the CIA interrupt for the given ICR bit. INPUTS iCRBit Bit number to set (0..4). interrupt Pointer to interrupt structure. RESULT interrupt Zero if successful, otherwise returns a pointer to the current owner interrupt structure. NOTE A processor interrupt may be generated immediately if this call is successful. In general, it is probably best to only call this function while DISABLED so that the resource to which the interrupt handler is being attached may be set to a known state before the handler is called. You MUST NOT change the state of the resource before attaching your handler to it. The CIA resources are special in that there is more than one of them in the system. Because of this, the C language stubs in amiga.lib for the CIA resources require an extra parameter to specify which CIA resource to use. The synopsis for the amiga.lib stubs is as follows: interrupt = AddICRVector( Resource, iCRBit, interrupt ) D0 A6 D0 A1 struct Interrupt *AddICRVector( struct Library *, WORD, struct Interrupt *); ***WARNING*** Never assume that any of the CIA hardware is free for use. Always use the AddICRVector() function to obtain ownership of the CIA hardware registers your code will use. Note that there are two (2) interval timers per CIA . If your application needs one of the interval timers, you can try to obtain any one of the four (4) until AddICRVector() succeeds. If all four interval timers are in-use, your application should exit cleanly. If you just want ownership of a CIA hardware timer, or register, but do not want interrupts generated, use the AddICRVector() function to obtain ownership, and use the AbleICR() function to turn off (or on) interrupts as needed. Note that CIA-B generates level 6 interrupts (which can degrade system performance by blocking lower priority interrupts). As usual, interrupt handling code should be optimized for speed. Always call RemICRVector() when your code exits to release ownership of any CIA hardware obtained with AddICRVector(). SEE ALSO cia.resource/RemICRVector() , cia.resource/AbleICR() [Back to Amiga Developer Docs ]